Beatly Drumming.

Beatly is the website I have built to host my film for 30 Minute Film Festival.
It is designed to be a website that people can learn playing drums on. Users can browse the genres they would like to learn songs for on the drums. The video is resembling a trailer for what they will learn with the help of our coaches. The aim of the website is to be simplistic and not to overwhelm newcomers into the world of drums, especially if they have never played drums before. The vision of the website was that the users could choose their desired genre of music, then the given songs they could learn in those genres, and then they would be shows video tutorials on how to play those songs. 

I used darker background and minimal text to create an immersive experience for the users. The colors were chosen to be in purple/red as those colors are analogous on the color wheel and, in my opinion, give the website a sense of professionalism coupled with excitement. I tried to create a website that user would feel safe and familiar in, to increase user retention of the website.

The process of creating the website involved a fair share of brainstorming, trial-and-error and jumping from one idea to another. On one hand, I was inexperienced in web development and design, on the other hand, there were so many possibilities for every single detail on the website. At first, I looked at websites with similar purpose, e.g. "drumeo.com", "schoolofrock.com", etc., but I thought they were too chaotic and packed with information for a project like mine. Hence, I tried to focus less on aiding professional or intermediate drummers and more on kickstarting the drumming journey for newcomers. I combined pieces of information from resources all around the web, such as YouTube, W3Schools, Wix, class files, Hubspot, Stackoverflow, etc. The HTML part was relatively easy to understand and create, JavaScript was a little harder due to coming up with an idea of engaging functionality and interactivity, but as a Computer Science student, it was not technically demanding for me. CSS was the hardest as I have not had any design experince before and CSS offers so much functionality that is easy to get lost in. I used help from youtube and templates to achieve the right design for the website.

The finished website and the initital idea of the website were significanlty contrasting. Initially, the video was meant to serve like a post in any social media platform - people would be able to comment, like the video, share their own videos, etc. Halfway through the project I realized that this idea did not make much sense, especially when the video is uploaded from youtube which serves the same exact purpose. Finally, I settles on the idea of a teaching webiste. As for some challenges - I did not expect such detailed work on the CSS file, therefore I had to reduce some of the intended fucntionality in order to be able to deliver the website on time. Despite those changes, the final version has met my expectations and I believe it is accessible, captivating and engaging for the target audience, which was the ultimate goal of the project.
